We'll talk right now about how you download and install the Go tools, just to get you started running a program. Right now, we'll talk about the download process and then next I'll go through actually doing it, showing you how to compile your first program, but right here, just talk about installing, which is fairly straightforward. So, first thing you are going to do is go to golang.org, and this is a snippet of the page when you go there. This isn't the whole page, I had to fit it on the slide, but this is what it basically looks like, at least right now it does, that can change over time of course. You can see the gopher, see that little gopher. You'll see that gopher icon over and over again. Gopher is the mascot of the Go programming language like Unix, you got demons. So, Go you have the gopher, but the main thing to look at here is that button down there that says Download Go. So, that's first thing you're going to click on. You're going to see Download Go, you click on that. Actually also look at this, on the left side, when you go to the web page, you'll see the whole screen. I've cut it off here, but on the left side, you could see there's a yellow box there where you can type in Go code and click on the Run button, it'll compile and run it. So, it'll compile it remotely and run it remotely. We're not going to use that, instead we're going to download the compiler, we're going to download Go Download to your machine locally and you'll be doing it locally, but if you want to just fool around, you could type in their, type some go program in there, click run, and it would actually execute it. So, what we're doing now is we're going to click Download Go to download the tools. Now, when you do that, you come to a page that looks like this. Now, again I'm only showing a part of the page, there's more below it and to the right. Basically, when you download Go, you can download the precompiled versions for different platforms. They've got Windows, and Linux, and Mac OS and you can also download the source if you want to, and you could compile all of the Go from scratch, it's whole tools chain from scratch if you wanted to. We will not be doing that. That is pain. We won't be doing that, but know that you could, it is open source and all the sources are right there for download if you want it. So, I'm going to be doing this on a Windows machine, although you could be doing it on a Linux or a Mac OS machine, either way. So, go for the feature downloads, they make it pretty easy. For Windows, you pick that MSI file that they've got highlighted right there. Basically, what you want is the newest stable precompiled version. I don't see unstable ones on here, but I would recommend the stable, but it's up to you. Anyway, you go for a new version, click the featured one and you download the MSI. Now, once you get that, remember if you have an antivirus on your machine, it can pop up and worry about this and complain, but just say okay. Then once you start running it, it'll start a wizard. Now, you've seen these installation wizards and this is sort of a standard installation wizard. Just obey the wizard and click Next, Next, and it will ask you where you want to install the tool, what directory you want it in, and so on. The default locations were fine with me, but that of course is up to you.